The Science of Getting Rich

There is a thinking stuff from which all things are made, and which, in its original state, permeates, penetrates, and fills the interspaces of the universe.

A thought, in this substance, Produces the thing that is imaged by the thought.

Man can form things in his thought, and, by impressing his thought upon formless substance, can cause the thing he thinks about to be created.

In order to do this, man must pass from the competitive to the creative mind; he must form a clear mental picture of the things he wants, and hold this picture in his thoughts with the fixed PURPOSE to get what he wants, and the unwavering FAITH that he does get what he wants, closing his mind to all that may tend to shake his purpose, dim his vision, or quench his faith.

That he may receive what he wants when it comes, man must act NOW upon the people and things in his present environment.

In order to do this, man must pass from the competitive to the creative mind; he must form a clear mental picture of the things he wants, and do, with faith and purpose, all that can be done each day, doing each separate thing in an efficient manner.



Mindset / paradigm
A seed, dropped into the ground, springs into activity, and in the act of living produces a hundred more seeds; life, by living, multiplies itself. It is forever Becoming More; it must do so, if it continues to be at all.
This law of perpetual increase is set forth by Jesus in the parable of the talents; only those who gain more retain any; from him who hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath.
It is the desire of God that all his creation become rich and abundant. He wants you to get rich because he can express himself better through you
God is more anxious to give you what you want than you are to get it.. "it is your Father's pleasure to give you the kingdom," said Jesus. "Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours."
You cannot exercise much power without gratitude; for it is gratitude that keeps you connected with Power. Notice the grateful attitude that Jesus took; how He always seems to be saying, "I thank Thee, Father, that Thou hearest me."
Faith is born of gratitude. The grateful mind continually expects good things, and expectation becomes faith.
The man who can sincerely thank God for the things which as yet he owns only in imagination, has real faith. He will get rich; he will cause the creation of whatsoever he wants.
There is no such thing possible in this universe as a lack of opportunities for the man who is living the advancing life.
Let go of the competitive mind and embrace the creative mind. Never get afraid that you will lose what you want because some other person "beats you to it." That cannot possibly happen; you are not seeking any thing that is possessed by anybody else. You do not have to take anything away from any one. You do not have to beat anybody in business. You must never think for a moment that the supply is limited, there's more than enough for everybody.
When you get out of the competitive mind you will understand that you never need to act hastily. No one else is going to beat you to the thing you want to do; there is enough for all. If one space is taken, another and a better one will be opened for you a little farther on; there is plenty of time.
You are to become a creator, not a competitor; you are going to get what you want, but in such a way that when you get it every other man will have more than he has now.
You will not fail because you lack the necessary talent to do what you wish to do. If you go on, you will develop all the talent that is necessary to the doing of your work.
The man who is certain to advance is the one who is too big for his place, and who has a clear concept of what he wants to be; who knows that he can become what he wants to be and who is determined to BE what he wants to be.
THOUGHT is the creative power. Thinking in a Certain Way will bring riches to you. THOUGHT is the only power which can produce tangible riches. We can create what we want to create; we can get what we want to have, and can become what we want to be.
Steps
You must form a clear and definite mental picture of what you want. Spend leisure hours in contemplating your vision.
Every day, hold the picture on your thoughts with a fixed purpose to realize it. Behind this purpose must be an invincible and unwavering FAITH that the thing is already yours!
Give thanks, every day, for what you have. Also, be thankful for the thing you want like you already have them!
The way to create riches is through trade and commerce. When things reach you, they will be in the hands of other men, who will ask an equivalent for them. And you can only get what is yours by giving the other man what is his.
Give to every man more than you take from him. Give more value than what your customer pays you in cash value. That way everybody gets richer.
Fill your current place. Expand as much as you can enriching everybody you come in contact with.
Do not wait for a change of environment, before you act; get a change of environment by action. Act now. You can advance only by being larger than your present place. Do, with faith and purpose, all that can be done each day, doing each separate thing in an efficient manner. It is really not the number of things you do, but the EFFICIENCY of each separate action that counts. Go as fast as you can, but never hurry.
Highlight per chapter
Chapter 1: The Right To Be Rich
The purpose of Nature is the advancement and unfoldment of life; and every man should have all that can contribute to the power, elegance, beauty, and richness of life; to be content with less is wasteful.
Every person naturally wants to become all that they are capable of becoming; this desire to realize innate possibilities is inherent in human nature; we cannot help wanting to be all that we can be.
You can render to God and humanity no greater service than to make the most of yourself.
Chapter 2: There is A Science of Getting Rich
Getting rich is not a matter of environment; is not the result of saving, or "thrift"; is not a matter of business or profession, is not by lack of capital.
Talented people get rich, and blockheads get rich; intellectually brilliant people get rich, and very stupid people get rich; physically strong people get rich, and weak and sickly people get rich. 
If anybody else in your town can get rich, so can you; and if anybody else in your state can get rich, so can you.
The ownership of money and property comes as a result of doing things in a certain way; those who do things in this Certain Way, whether on purpose or accidentally, get rich; while those who do not do things in this Certain Way, no matter how hard they work or how able they are, remain poor.
Chapter 3: Is Opportunity Monopolized?
NO man is kept poor because opportunity has been taken away from him.
You may be shut off from some business, but there are other channels open to you.
There is abundance of opportunity for the man who will go with the tide, instead of trying to swim against it.
No one is kept in poverty by a shortness in the supply of riches; there is more than enough for all.
The visible supply is virtually inexhaustible; and the invisible supply really is inexhaustible.
No man, therefore, is poor because nature is poor, or because there is not enough to go around. Nature is an inexhaustible storehouse of riches; the supply will renew itself.
It is the natural and inherent impulse of life to seek to live more; it is the nature of intelligence to enlarge itself, and of consciousness to seek to extend its boundaries and find fuller expression.
You are not kept poor by lack in the supply of riches. The race as a whole is always abundantly rich, and if individuals are poor, it is because they do not follow the Certain Way of doing things which makes the individual man rich.
Chapter 4: The First Principle in The Science of Getting Rich
THOUGHT is the only power which can produce tangible riches.
Man is a thinking center, and can originate thought. All the forms that man fashions with his hands must first exist in his thought.
A man's way of doing things is the direct result of the way he thinks about things.
To do things in a way you want to do them, you will have to acquire the ability to think the way you want to think; this is the first step toward getting rich.
To think what you want to think is to think TRUTH, regardless of appearances.
There is no labor from which most people shrink as they do from that of sustained and consecutive thought; it is the hardest work in the world. This is especially true when truth is contrary to appearances.
To think health when surrounded by the appearances of disease, or to think riches when in the midst of appearances of poverty, requires power; but he who acquires this power becomes a MASTER MIND. He can conquer fate; he can have what he wants.
When we realize this, we lose all doubt and fear, for we know that we can create what we want to create; we can get what we want to have, and can become what we want to be.
Chapter 5: Increasing Life
Every living thing must continually seek for the enlargement of its life, because life, in the mere act of living, must increase itself. A seed, dropped into the ground, springs into activity, and in the act of living produces a hundred more seeds; life, by living, multiplies itself. It is forever Becoming More; it must do so, if it continues to be at all.
It is the desire of God that you should get rich. He wants you to get rich because he can express himself better through you if you have plenty of things to use in giving him expression.
The universe desires you to have everything you want to have. Nature is friendly to your plans. Everything is naturally for you.
What God wants is that you should make the most of yourself, for yourself, and for others.
You must get rid of the thought of competition. You are to create, not to compete for what is already created. You do not have to take anything away from any one. You do not have to drive sharp bargains. You do not have to cheat, or to take advantage. You do not need to let any man work for you for less than he earns.
You are to become a creator, not a competitor; you are going to get what you want, but in such a way that when you get it every other man will have more than he has now.
Riches secured on the competitive plane are never satisfactory and permanent; they are yours to-day, and another's tomorrow.
You must never think for a moment that the supply is limited. Just as soon as you begin to think that all the money is being "cornered" and controlled by bankers and others, and that you must exert yourself to get laws passed to stop this process, and so on; in that moment you drop into the competitive mind, and your power to cause creation is gone for the time being.
Never look at the visible supply; look always at the limitless riches in Formless Substance, and KNOW that they are coming to you as fast as you can receive and use them. Nobody, by cornering the visible supply, can prevent you from getting what is yours.
Never get afraid that you will lose what you want because some other person "beats you to it." That cannot possibly happen; you are not seeking any thing that is possessed by anybody else;
Chapter 6: How Riches Come to You
Riches comes to you through trade.
You will not need to deal with them unfairly; you do not have to get something for nothing, but can give to every man more than you take from him. You cannot give every man more in cash market value than you take from him, but you can give him more in use value than the cash value of the thing you take from him.
When you rise from the competitive to the creative plane, you can scan your business transactions very strictly, and if you are selling any man anything which does not add more to his life than the thing he give you in exchange, you can afford to stop it.
You do not have to beat anybody in business
Give every man more in use value than you take from him in cash value; then you are adding to the life of the world by every business transaction.
God has not finished his work yet. He can still made as much as He has already made. There is more than enough for everybody to go around. You just have to ask
You need not hesitate about asking largely; "it is your Father's pleasure to give you the kingdom," said Jesus. So you need not hesitate to ask largely. It will be done to you according to your faith.
Chapter 7: Gratitude
First, you believe that there is one Intelligent Substance, from which all things proceed; second, you believe that this Substance gives you everything you desire; and third, you relate yourself to it by a feeling of deep and profound gratitude.
Many people who order their lives rightly in all other ways are kept in poverty by their lack of gratitude. Having received one gift from God, they cut the wires which connect them with Him by failing to make acknowledgment.
It is easy to understand that the nearer we live to the source of wealth, the more wealth we shall receive.
The more gratefully we fix our minds on the Supreme when good things come to us, the more good things we will receive, and the more rapidly they will come; and the reason simply is that the mental attitude of gratitude draws the mind into closer touch with the source from which the blessings come.
Gratitude alone can keep you looking toward the All, and prevent you from falling into the error of thinking of the supply as limited; and to do that would be fatal to your hopes.
And if your gratitude is strong and constant, the reaction in Formless Substance will be strong and continuous; the movement of the things you want will be always toward you. Notice the grateful attitude that Jesus took; how He always seems to be saying, "I thank Thee, Father, that Thou hearest me." You cannot exercise much power without gratitude; for it is gratitude that keeps you connected with Power.
But the value of gratitude does not consist solely in getting you more blessings in the future. Without gratitude you cannot long keep from dissatisfied thought regarding things as they are. The moment you permit your mind to dwell with dissatisfaction upon things as they are, you begin to lose ground.
To fix your attention on the best is to surround yourself with the best, and to become the best.
We are Thinking Substance, and thinking substance always takes the form of that which it thinks about.
Faith is born of gratitude. The grateful mind continually expects good things, and expectation becomes faith.
Do not rage against corrupt politicians; if it were not for politicians we should fall into anarchy, they are all helping to arrange the lines of transmission along which your riches will come to you, and be grateful to them all.
Chapter 8: Thinking in the Certain Way
The initial step toward getting rich is having a mental image of what you want. You must form a clear and definite mental picture of what you want; you cannot transmit an idea unless you have it yourself.
You must know what you want, and be definite. it must be done by a coherent statement;
That clear mental picture you must have continually in mind, Spend as much of your leisure time as you can in contemplating your picture.
The more clear and definite you make your picture then, and the more you dwell upon it, bringing out all its delightful details, the stronger your desire will be; and the stronger your desire, the easier it will be to hold your mind fixed upon the picture of what you want.
Behind your clear vision must be the purpose to realize it; to bring it out in tangible expression. And behind this purpose must be an invincible and unwavering FAITH that the thing is already yours; that it is "at hand" and you have only to take possession of it.
"Whatsoever things ye ask for when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them," said Jesus.
See the things you want as if they were actually around you all the time; see yourself as owning and using them.
Dwell upon your mental picture until it is clear and distinct, and then take the Mental Attitude of Ownership toward everything in that picture. Take possession of it, in mind, in the full faith that it is actually yours. Hold to this mental ownership; do not waiver for an instant in the faith that it is real.
be as thankful for it all the time as you expect to be when it has taken form.
The man who can sincerely thank God for the things which as yet he owns only in imagination, has real faith. He will get rich; he will cause the creation of whatsoever he wants.
"Believe that ye receive them."
Chapter 9: How to Use the Will
Use your mind to form a mental image of what you want, and to hold that vision with faith and purpose; and use your will to keep your mind working in the Right Way.
Do not use your will to coerce God or others. You do not have to compel God to give you good things, any more than you have to use your will power to make the sun rise. God is friendly to you, and is more anxious to give you what you want than you are to get it.
The more steady and continuous your faith and purpose, the more rapidly you will get rich, because you will make only POSITIVE impressions upon Substance.
Since belief is all important, it behooves you to guard your thoughts; and as your beliefs will be shaped to a very great extent by the things you observe and think about, it is important that you should command your attention.
People must be taught to become rich by creation, not by competition.
Every man who becomes rich by competition throws down behind him the ladder by which he rises, and keeps others down; but every man who gets rich by creation opens a way for thousands to follow him, and inspires them to do so.
Chapter 10: Further Use of the Will
Keep away from thoughts about poverty, sickness, past financial troubles, hardships, etc. Give your attention wholly to riches; ignore poverty.  Think of the riches the world is coming into, instead of the poverty it is growing out of. "Let the dead bury their dead," as Jesus said.
It is the truth that there is no such thing as poverty; that there is only wealth. Some people remain in poverty because they are ignorant of the fact that there is wealth for them.
You must pass from the competitive to the creative mind; he must form a clear mental picture of the things he wants, and hold this picture in his thoughts with the fixed PURPOSE to get what he wants, and the unwavering FAITH that he does get what he wants, closing his mind against all that may tend to shake his purpose, dim his vision, or quench his faith.
Chapter 11: Acting in the Certain Way
THOUGHT is the creative power
thinking in a Certain Way will bring riches to you.
The scientific use of thought consists in forming a clear and distinct mental image of what you want; in holding fast to the purpose to get what you want; and in realizing with grateful faith that you do get what you want.
your faith and purpose positively impress your vision upon Formless Substance, which has THE SAME DESIRE FOR MORE LIFE THAT YOU HAVE; and this vision, received from you, sets all the creative forces at work IN AND THROUGH THEIR REGULAR CHANNELS OF ACTION, but directed toward you.
When things reach you, they will be in the hands of other men, who will ask an equivalent for them. And you can only get what is yours by giving the other man what is his.
thought and personal action must be combined.
By thought, the thing you want is brought to you; by action you receive it.
Whatever your action is to be, it is evident that you must act NOW. Put your whole mind into present action.
Do not give your creative impulse to Original Substance, and then sit down and wait for results; if you do, you will never get them. Act now. There is never any time but now, and there never will be any time but now. If you are ever to begin to make ready for the reception of what you want, you must begin now.
Do not wait for a change of environment, before you act; get a change of environment by action. You can so act upon the environment in which you are now, as to cause yourself to be transferred to a better environment.
If you are engaged in some business, and feel that it is not the right one for you, do not wait until you get into the right business before you begin to act. No man was ever so misplaced but that he could not find the right place, and no man ever became so involved in the wrong business but that he could get into the right business.
Use your present business as the means of getting a better one, and use your present environment as the means of getting into a better one. Your vision of the right business, if held with faith and purpose, will cause the Supreme to move the right business toward you; and your action, if performed in the Certain Way, will cause you to move toward the business.
Chapter 12: Efficient Action
You must do ALL that you can do where you are.
You can advance only by being larger than your present place; and no man is larger than his present place who leaves undone any of the work pertaining to that place.
The world is advanced only by those who more than fill their present places.
Do, every day, all that you can do that day, and do each act in an efficient manner.
You are not to overwork, nor to rush blindly into your business in the effort to do the greatest possible number of things in the shortest possible time.
You are not to try to do tomorrow's work today, nor to do a week's work in a day.
It is really not the number of things you do, but the EFFICIENCY of each separate action that counts.
You can make each act a success, because ALL Power is working with you; and ALL Power cannot fail. Power is at your service; and to make each act efficient you have only to put power into it.
Every act can be made strong and efficient by holding your vision while you are doing it, and putting the whole power of your FAITH and PURPOSE into it.
Chapter 13: Getting into the Right Business
SUCCESS, in any particular business, depends for one thing upon your possessing in a well-developed state the faculties required in that business.
The different faculties are tools; it is essential to have good tools, but it is also essential that the tools should be used in the Right Way.
Generally speaking, you will do best in that business which will use your strongest faculties; the one for which you are naturally "best fitted."
You can get rich in ANY business, for if you have not the right talent for you can develop that talent; it merely means that you will have to make your tools as you go along, instead of confining yourself to the use of those with which you were born.
Desire is a manifestation of power. If you have the desire to do something, it means that you have the power to make it.
If you feel that you are not in the right vocation, do not act too hastily in trying to get into another one. The best way, generally, to change business or environment is by growth.
There is never any hurry on the creative plane; and there is no lack of opportunity.
When you get out of the competitive mind you will understand that you never need to act hastily. No one else is going to beat you to the thing you want to do; there is enough for all. If one space is taken, another and a better one will be opened for you a little farther on; there is plenty of time.
When you are in doubt, wait. Fall back on the contemplation of your vision, and increase your faith and purpose; and by all means, in times of doubt and indecision, cultivate gratitude.
Mistakes come from acting hastily, or from acting in fear or doubt, or in forgetfulness of the Right Motive, which is more life to all, and less to none.
As you go on in the Certain Way, opportunities will come to you in increasing number; and you will need to be very steady in your faith and purpose, and to keep in close touch with the All Mind by reverent gratitude.
Do all that you can do in a perfect manner every day, but do it without haste, worry, or fear. Go as fast as you can, but never hurry.
Remember that in the moment you begin to hurry you cease to be a creator and become a competitor; you drop back upon the old plane again.
The exercise of GRATITUDE will never fail to strengthen your faith and renew your purpose.
Chapter 14: The Impression of Increase
This law of perpetual increase is set forth by Jesus in the parable of the talents; only those who gain more retain any; from him who hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath.
The normal desire for increased wealth is not an evil or a reprehensible thing; it is simply the desire for more abundant life; it is aspiration. And because it is the deepest instinct of their natures, all men and women are attracted to him who can give them more of the means of life.
You are a creative center, from which increase is given off to all.
You can convey the impression of an Advancing Man by holding the unshakable faith that you, yourself, are in the Way of Increase; and by letting this faith inspire, fill, and permeate every action.
Do everything that you do in the firm conviction that you are an advancing personality, and that you are giving advancement to everybody.
Feel that you are getting rich, and that in so doing you are making others rich, and conferring benefits on all.
The mind that seeks for mastery over others is the competitive mind; and the competitive mind is not the creative one. "What I want for myself, I want for everybody."
Chapter 15: The Advancing Man
Do all the work you can do, every day, and do each piece of work in a perfectly successful manner; put the power of success, and the purpose to get rich, into everything that you do.
The man who is merely a "good" workman, filling his place to the very best of his ability, and satisfied with that, is valuable to his employer; and it is not to the employer's interest to promote him; he is worth more where he is.
To secure advancement, something more is necessary than to be too large for your place.
The man who is certain to advance is the one who is too big for his place, and who has a clear concept of what he wants to be; who knows that he can become what he wants to be and who is determined to BE what he wants to be.
There is a Power which never fails to present opportunity to the Advancing Man who is moving in obedience to law. God cannot help helping you, if you act in a Certain Way;
Do not wait for an opportunity to be all that you want to be; when an opportunity to be more than you are now is presented and you feel impelled toward it, take it. It will be the first step toward a greater opportunity.
There is no such thing possible in this universe as a lack of opportunities for the man who is living the advancing life.
Chapter 16: Some Cautions, and Concluding Observations
If the people have the Advancing Mind, have the Faith that they can become rich, and move forward with the fixed purpose to become rich, nothing can possibly keep them in poverty.
The more men who get rich on the competitive plane, the worse for others; the more who get rich on the creative plane, the better for others.
But remember that your thought must be held upon the creative plane; you are never for an instant to be betrayed into regarding the supply as limited, or into acting on the moral level of competition.
Whenever you do fall into old ways of thought, correct yourself instantly; for when you are in the competitive mind, you have lost the cooperation of the Mind of the Whole.
Guard your speech. Never speak of yourself, your affairs, or of anything else in a discouraged or discouraging way. Never admit the possibility of failure, or speak in a way that infers failure as a possibility.
Never speak of the times as being hard, or of business conditions as being doubtful. Times may be hard and business doubtful for those who are on the competitive plane, but they can never be so for you; you can create what you want, and you are above fear.
When others are having hard times and poor business, you will find your greatest opportunities.
Train yourself to think of and to look upon the world as a something which is Becoming, which is growing;
When you make a failure, it is because you have not asked for enough; keep on, and a larger thing then you were seeking will certainly come to you. Remember this
Every seeming failure will work out for you, if you keep your faith, hold to your purpose, have gratitude, and do, every day, all that can be done that day, doing each separate act in a successful manner.
You will not fail because you lack the necessary talent to do what you wish to do. If you go on, you will develop all the talent that is necessary to the doing of your work.
Do not read pessimistic or conflicting literature, or get into arguments upon the matter.
Chapter 17: Summary of the Science of Getting Rich
man must pass from the competitive to the creative mind; otherwise he cannot be in harmony with the Formless Intelligence, which is always creative and never competitive in spirit.
Gratitude unifies the mind of man with the intelligence of Substance, so that man's thoughts are received by the Formless. Man can remain upon the creative plane only by uniting himself with the Formless Intelligence through a deep and continuous feeling of gratitude.
Man must form a clear and definite mental image of the things he wishes to have, to do, or to become; and he must hold this mental image in his thoughts, while being deeply grateful to the Supreme that all his desires are granted to him.
Spend leisure hours in contemplating your Vision, and in earnest thanksgiving that the reality is being given to him. Keep in mind the Purpose to get rich through the realization of his mental image
What you wants will come to you through the ways of established trade and commerce.
In order to receive you must be active; and this activity can only consist in more than filling your present place.
do, every day, all that can be done that day, taking care to do each act in a successful manner.
He must give to every man a use value in excess of the cash value he receives, so that each transaction makes for more life;
the riches they receive will be in exact proportion to the definiteness of their vision, the fixity of their purpose, the steadiness of their faith, and the depth of their gratitude.
